Today I'm going to be talking about the
most effective exercise which is not
allowed.
[Music]
Hi, my name is John Jish. I am a doctor
of biomedical engineering which gives me
a unique perspective on all sorts of
subjects. Today I'm going to be talking
about the most effective exercise which
is not allowed. So when I say most
effective exercise, I'm talking about
variable resistance. However, variable
resistance in a standard gym is not
allowed. Now it's not because they don't
want you to have gains. It's for safety
reasons. So, like when you see and
there's videos out there like this with
people hooking bands to standard fitness
equipment and trying to add some
variability. So, like in a bicep curl,
they have a lower resistance where
they're weaker and they have a higher
resistance when they get to the more
contracted position. Uh that way you can
fatigue in diminishing range and get a
much more powerful stimulus as you go to
momentary muscular fatigue multiple
times in a in a set with a fresh muscle.
That's that's the best part about it. It
saves you time. It's more efficient. A
much more powerful stimulus. Way lower
chances of injury.
But the problem is
banding. Sometimes people don't know
what they're doing when they hook a band
on a bar and especially if it's
tensioned when they connect it. Then
they go to take it off and all of a
sudden the band goes flying across the
room and hits somebody in the face. Now
the gym has a problem from a liability
standpoint. Now they can be sued. So,
you'll notice if you go to a gym and you
start using bands and hooking it to the
equipment here, here's another example.
There's people who will hook a band
around the edge of a of a dumbbell rack,
a sort of center standing dumbbell rack.
They'll hook it on, let's say, one of
the one of the little arms that comes
off of the rack that normally you set
the dumbbells or or maybe the the sort
of pre bolted together barbells and they
have these like, you know, cambered
bars.
You can you can see people they'll hook
a band to one of these one of these
hooks that you place the bar on and then
they'll want to try and do like a tricep
push down or something like that. But
here's the problem.
You train with so much more force with
variable resistance that you're not
fully aware of.
You could tip the entire rack over and
this has happened. and the rack could
fall on the person doing the exercise or
it could just fall and send dumbbells
tumbling across the room and and hit
somebody. There's even an instance where
somebody bought an exercise band and
they threw it over a tree branch so
their kid could have like a swing in the
yard. Well, what happened is kids
bouncing up and down on this band that's
attached to a tree branch broke the tree
branch off. Branch comes down and hits
the kid in the back of the neck. Now the
kid's paralyzed for life. So there's a
good reason why gyms don't want you
walking in and just throwing bands over
whatever
because you don't know what's going to
happen. And a lot of times the whatever
you're throwing the band over does not
have the structural integrity or the
balance to handle it. There is a way to
get past this. When you bring your X3
into a gym, the X3 is self-contained, as
in you don't hook the bands to anything
that's not part of X3. So, the handle
has hooks, the bar has hooks on the end
of it, and then the plate that you stand
on allows for the bands to move freely
underneath so they can flex and and they
can move with a greater stretch or the
discharge of the force. So,
when you bring your X3 to a gym, now you
can get the benefit of variable
resistance in a gym. Of course, you
could also do it outside or you could do
it at home. You don't need to go to a
gym. Uh, which is why I don't go to a
gym. I I haven't worked out in a gym
without my X3 in more than 10 years. Uh,
I haven't really touched anything other
than X-ray in in
Yeah, more than that. But these gyms
that aren't allowing variable
resistance, you just have to keep in
mind there's just no good way to do it
without the custommade equipment that is
intended on delivering this superior
stimulus. So yeah, if you walk into a
standard gym and and ask where are all
the bands, they'll tell you, "Yeah, we
don't have those because they end up
hurting people." But don't worry, if you
want to do this on your own and really
want to double down on gains and build
muscle and strength as fast as possible,
variable resistance is definitely your
answer. If this video helped you, I want
you to subscribe and follow. I'm going
to put out videos on a regular basis. I
think they're going to help a whole lot
of people, especially if you're one of
those people that doesn't just instantly
grow from lifting regular weights. We've
got the answer for you.